Golf was a sport supposedly created from the Dutch game of "kolf." However, the first proven reference to it came in 1457, when the Scottish Parliament frowned on its popularity. After all, it took young men away from archery practice. Initially, golf was played on grounds near the sea. These grounds were filled with crisp turf and natural hazards, such as water and sand. It was only later that the game moved to downs, moorlands, and parkland courses. The U.S. got their golf balls and sticks from Scotland. They shipped them down to Charleston, South Carolina in the mid-18th century. It was not until the late 1880s that the country built its first permanent courses in "country clubs." These clubs were mainly built for rich White males. There were no public courses for many years. And, with the invention of a new, cheap, golf ball, the British grabbed hold of the game to make it popular in England, too. The golf tee holds the ball as the player swings his stick. It was invented by George F. Grant in Boston. He filed a patent on the wooden tee on December 12, 1899. It had a tapering base and a flexible, concave shoulder. The practice of building 18-hole courses came from changes to the Old Course at St. Andrews, Scotland, around 1848. They originally played the nine holes of the Old Course in both directions. This meant they went up then back down the same field. It made for a lot of physical activity. The first thought to correct the problem was to extend the course and bring it around to the starting point. That way the players would end up where they began. This was met with a great uproar, however. As a result, officials added the additional greens, increasing the width of the course to accommodate the "back nine." When King George V saw what they had done, he had an 18-hole course built at Richmond Palace. The object was to provide the people who couldn't afford the private clubs with a course they could use. The Old Course at St. Andrews is still regarded, though, as one of the greatest courses in the world.