Fungi are living organisms that are not animals, plants, or bacteria. They have their own biological kingdom. Unlike bacteria, they do not have simple cells without a nucleus. Like animals and plants, they have complex cells with a nucleus. Their name comes from the Latin "fungus." It means "mushroom." Fungi are found on land, in water, air, and even inside plants and animals. Some species are extremely small. Some are very large - over several square miles. We have found more than 100,000 different species of fungi. Scientists estimate that there may be more than 1.5 million. Fungi were once part of the plant kingdom. Then scientists realized they are different from plants in two major ways. First, the fungi's cell walls are composed of chitin instead of cellulose. Second, fungi do not make their own food through photosynthesis. So what are fungi really like? They are "eukaryotic," meaning their cells have a nucleus. They get their food by decomposing other organisms or by eating from their hosts, if they are parasites. They do not have chlorophyll, which means they can't use the Sun's energy for photosynthesis. They reproduce through spores rather than pollen, fruit, or seeds. The spores are usually found in the gills underneath the cap. They are also usually rooted to something, which means they can't move by themselves. Fungi play many roles in the cycle of life. Many are used as food, such as mushrooms and truffles. Yeast is a type of fungi used when baking bread to help it rise. It is also used to ferment beverages like beer. Fungi play an important role in the decomposition of organic matter. By breaking it down, they release carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen into both the soil and the atmosphere. Some fungi are also used in medicine. Some can kill bacteria that can cause infections and disease in humans, and others make antibiotics, such as penicillin and cephalosporin. The fungus Trichoderma is sometimes used to help make stone-washed jeans. The most common types of fungi are mushrooms, molds, and yeast. Scientists who study these are called "mycologists."






