The marvelous thing about inventions is that their ideas can come from anywhere. Take Christopher Cockrell, a British mechanical engineer, for example. In 1950, he had an idea about how to make boats move faster - using a vacuum cleaner. He used his wife's vacuum and took it to his boatyard, where he cut a hole in the bow of a small boat. Next, he reversed the vacuum's motor, so that it pushed air out rather than sucking it in. Then, he placed it so the air would blow just below the boat. What happened was that the friction of water on the boat decreased, making the craft move faster. Over the next few months, he experimented with blowing air through cans opened on both ends. He found that blowing the same mass of air through a narrow can generated about three times more thrust than when it passed through a wide can. The idea of using air thrust for propulsion became the basis for the modern Hovercraft, a vehicle that rides on a cushion of air and moves equally fast over land and water. The first model was successfully tested in 1959 on the Isle of Wight, and Cockrell was knighted in 1969 for his efforts. From this idea came many new applications, such as cargo vehicles for rough terrain and machines for lifting heavy objects. Devices using this technology have laid pipelines across Europe, moved crashed aircraft from runways, and carried oil rigs across the rough Alaskan tundra. Perhaps the most interesting (and unforeseen) development of this technology has been the creation of "hover beds" to support critically burned patients. John T. Scales, a British biomechanical engineer, had the idea to turn a Hovercraft upside down, so that it would blow air upward. Because burn patients have gaping, oozing wounds until new skin forms over the affected areas, they can suffer agonizing pain when those areas come in contact with the surface of a bed. By floating them on air, the weight of their bodies no longer puts pressure on the wounds, and they can rest more comfortably until the new skin grows. As an added feature, sterile air can be passed over the patients' bodies, aiding the healing process.