Do you have a fear of going to the dentist? How would you feel if it were 9,000 years ago, and you needed your teeth drilled? You would have nothing to numb the pain. There also wouldn't be a whole lot of people who could help.  Scientists have found evidence, though, that people living between 7,000 and 9,000 years ago did go to the dentist. Dentists at that time used flint (stone) implements, not metal. This finding came from a team that discovered eleven teeth from nine adults who lived during that period. They contain drill marks made from a sharpened flint point.  The teeth came from residents of a prehistoric farming village called Mehrgarh, which is located in what is now Pakistan. These discoveries represent the earliest known examples of dental work. The drilling was performed in the cheek teeth and molars, not just in the front. It tells us that the dental changes were intended for health purposes, not for display or decoration.  Three drilled teeth came from the same individual. One other tooth was drilled twice, and four teeth show decay near drilled holes. It's interesting, though, that there is no evidence of tooth drilling found in a 6,500-year-old cemetery located at the same site.  Drilled holes in the Mehrgarh teeth were 1.3 to 3.2 millimeters in diameter, and they had a depth of 0.5 to 3.5mm. Smoothing of the edges indicates that the drilling was performed on living individuals. Further chewing caused additional dental wear. Some type of filling may have been placed in drilled holes, which would have exposed sensitive tooth areas. However, there is no remaining evidence of specific filling material. Ridges on the inside walls of the holes also marks the use of prehistoric drilling tools.  The inhabitants of Mehrgarh attached sharpened flint stones to wooden rods. They used the tools to make beads out of shell, turquoise, and other materials. Bead production may well have evolved into tooth-drilling instruments.  Some of the drilled teeth also had cavities, according to anthropologist David DeGusta of Stanford University. He believes that "it's not a stretch to suggest it might have been early dentistry."