Canada is the second-largest country in the world, the first being Russia. It does, however, have more coastline than any other country; and, today, the U.S.-Canada border is the longest international border, but it lacks any kind of military defense. This is somewhat strange, as the U.S. has invaded Canada twice in its history. The first time happened at the beginning of the American Revolutionary War. Colonial troops made it all the way to Quebec City before they were forced back. Almost 40 years later, the War of 1812 took place. Certain members of Congress, called "war hawks," were gunning for a second invasion. Some even wanted to annex either part or all of Canada, then a British colony. At that time, about 7.5 million people lived in the U.S., compared to only 500,000 in Canada, many of whom were not even British, but French or American. The United States declared war on Great Britain in June 1812, upset with the British practice of removing sailors from American merchant ships and forcing them to serve in the British navy. It disagreed with practices that would stop American trade with France. It also opposed the British encouragement of Native American resistance to the country's policies. Many Americans believed the invasion would be very easy. Even former President Thomas Jefferson called capturing Quebec a "mere matter of marching." The U.S. staged a three-pronged attack. However, the whole Canadian campaign produced nothing but "disaster, defeat, disgrace, and ruin and death," according to the Green-Mountain Farmer, a Vermont newspaper, in January 1813. By 1814, the war between Britain and Napoleonic France was winding down. That freed up thousands of veterans to head to the American front. The United States did win important victories at New Orleans, Baltimore, and Lake Champlain, but, realizing they had no lasting chance, they withdrew. A peace treaty stipulated that all land captured by either side would be returned. In the aftermath of the war, both the Americans and British fortified the border in case of future conflict. However, tensions cooled relatively quickly, and a grand reconciliation ball was held on the Detroit frontier. Since that time, the U.S. and Canadian armies have not fought each other and have, in fact, become strong defense allies.






