Dry-wood termites are the bane of house owners everywhere. They not only burrow in trees, but they also burrow into the wooden frames on which houses are built, causing them to collapse. They gnaw away at the inside but leave the outer hull or bark intact. Termites are virtually blind, and they are about the size of a rice grain. They operate almost entirely by smell and touch. Some species will build their nests above the ground in gigantic anthills known as termitaria, or "cathedrals." They can have spires 12-20 feet high, and measure 10 feet in diameter. The largest of the termitaria are located in Africa, where they may be 30 feet high and 100 feet in diameter. Within the mound is a system of tunnels and connecting spaces. The entire structure may take a colony eight years to build. Almost all termites are sterile. However, after a colony has existed for a while, sexual forms, or "nymphs," emerge. These termites have wings and are responsible for perpetuating the species by establishing new colonies. No one knows for sure what triggers the event, but when the nymphs are ready to leave, workers drill holes through the cathedrals to the outside, complete with miniature liftoff platforms. Probably only about one in a million makes it to safety; the rest are eaten by other animals, such as lizards, frogs, and birds. When a female nymph touches down, she releases a scent to attract a male. When he arrives, they both break off their wings then search for a nesting place, preferably in soil or in rotting wood, with the female making the final selection. The pair burrow until they have formed a dark, moist nest, where they finally mate and begin the cycle all over again. A colony of termites can contain up to three million individuals, ruled by one dictatorial queen. Most of the worker insects toil 24 hours a day, tending fungus gardens or collecting wood and grass, until they die. Some die from sheer exhaustion, while others, lacking warmth or moisture, may die from the elements. If food is in short supply, the end result is simple - the termites just eat their own young.






