Many people have wondered if life exists on planets other than our own. People have thought about it since the beginning of science fiction as a genre. That occurred in 160 A.D., when Lucien of Samosata wrote the story "True History." It was only recently, though, that new advancements in technology have allowed us to do more than just wonder. We can now detect possible signals coming from another intelligent life form. One of the earliest attempts at direct communication came in 1960. Frank D. Drake was an astronomer at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory in West Virginia. His Project Ozma was a place "very far away, difficult to reach, and populated by strange and exotic beings." From April to July 1960, an 85-foot radio telescope searched the sky for six hours every day. It was looking for a wavelength unique to the cold hydrogen gas present in space. The astronomers scanned the tapes for any repeated patterns or prime numbers. These might be a simple, but non-natural phenomenon. They would tell us that an intelligence outside our own sent a message. Despite some tantalizing possibilities, though, no one found a clear pattern in the noise. Radio waves are not the only way we can see signs of extraterrestrial life. The array of X-ray, infrared, and ultraviolet telescopes, as well as the amazing Hubble telescope, give us unprecedented access to the universe. We also have a number of robotic probes passing the outer planets and digging up Mars. These have given scientists new hope that they can find the life they seek. In addition, sensitive new computer hardware and software allow us to more easily detect planets orbiting stars other than our own. Now we can calculate a planet's gravitational effect on the parent star. We can also detect molecules in their atmospheres. To date, hundreds of such planets have been discovered. None of these planets, though, seem able to support life as we know it, though some come very close. As our technology continues to improve, though, we may find that the possibility of life is, in fact, a reality.






