Scientists may have found another large object in our solar system. It is being called a "super-Earth." Astronomers used data from the ALMA telescope. It records information from short-wavelength light. They found an object in the direction of Alpha Centauri. This is the closest star to the Sun. That star is only four light-years away. ALMA can make precise readings at short-microwave wavelengths. These are usually sent out by cold gas and dust. The objects on the edge of our solar system also send out light in this range. The object would be too cool and far away to be picked up by infrared telescopes. Infrared picks up an object's heat. In 2014, ALMA found a faint object in the direction of Alpha Centauri A & B (two of the three suns). It saw it more clearly again in May 2015. The object is near the Alpha Centauri system in the sky. That would seem to suggest it could be part of that system. It could be bound by gravity to one of the system's stars. Because of the distance, at ALMA's wavelengths it would mean the object was a red dwarf star. But, if it were, it should be clearly visible in the infrared. It is not. If it is not part of Alpha Centauri then it has to be closer and smaller than we thought. There have been only two sightings. That means we can't plot the object's orbit. We can also only guess at its distance and size. One possibility is that it's an object about 100 astronomical units (AU) away from the Sun. One AU is the distance from the Earth to the Sun. This would make it the most distant known object in our solar system. It would probably be smaller than Pluto. Another possibility is that it's about 300 AU away and about 1.5 times the size of Earth. That would make it the first "super-Earth" found in our solar system. Still, it appears about 42 degrees from the plane of our solar system in the sky. A planet with such a highly inclined orbit seems very unlikely. Even Pluto is not that far tilted. Clearly, there are a lot of questions still to answer.






