The colors of martial arts belts show the student's level of experience. The color progression depends on the type of martial arts. White usually means a beginner. Black usually means a high rank. However, using colored belts was only recently added to the ancient arts. It was introduced around the turn of the 20th century. Kan Jigor was a well-regarded teacher in his home country of Japan. However, he was small, only 5 feet 2 inches tall and 90 pounds. He took up jiu jitsu to gain strength. He created judo in the late 1800s from his study of jiu jitsu. When he began teaching judo, Jigor gave some of his students the rank of "Shodan." It means "beginning degree," and it is the lowest black belt rank. The ranking system was similar to the Dan ranking system in the board game "Go." That was created by Honinbo Dosaku in the late 17th century. Before this, more experienced students were simply given scrolls. These described their abilities. In these early days of judo, students dressed differently than today. The art was practiced wearing a traditional full length, light robe (kimono) secured with a belt (obi). Today, students wear comfortable, baggy pants and a belted smock. In 1907, Jigor introduced the modern uniform (judogi) and its thinner obi. However, the only colors were black for the master "yudansha" and white for the less experienced ("mudansha"). The judogi's white color symbolized simplicity and purity. The white belt of the beginner showed that the student began empty. Later, he would earn a black belt, showing he was filled with knowledge. Over time, Jigor changed the colors to recognize even greater levels of achievement and skill. By around 1930, he adopted black belts with red and white panels. The red symbolized the sacrifices made and the student's desire to learn. He awarded these (kohaku obi) to what are today known as 6th-, 7th-, and 8th-degree black belts. Another judo master was Mikonosuke Kawaishi. He taught in Paris. He began to use other colors with the uniform around 1935. He felt it helped motivate his students toward even greater achievement. Soon, masters of other disciplines, including karate and tae kwon do, adopted the colored belt system in their arts.






