Fluorescent bulbs are the workhorses of the working world. They are made up of a sealed tube coated on the inside with a phosphor powder and filled with (usually) argon gas and a small amount of mercury gas. Fluorescent lights contain two electrodes, one at either end of the tube, that emit electrons as they heat up. After a short time, the electrons shooting across the bulb through the ionized gas creates an arc. The mercury in the bulb becomes vaporized, the electrons in the atoms are energized, and they move to a higher energy shell that orbits the nucleus. This high energy state is unstable; as the electrons quickly return to their original energy levels, they release photons. Most of these occur in the ultraviolet (UV) spectrum, which humans can't see. What's important in terms of lighting, though, is that the UV photons excite the electrons in the phosphor coating, causing them to jump to a higher energy state, as well. When these electrons return to their original state, they release photons in the visible spectrum, making them useful for all kinds of lighting requirements. If it were not checked, the current in the tube would rise to dangerous levels because the electrical resistance of the ionized gas in the tube drops progressively as it heats up. If this were to happen, at the very least it would flip your circuit breaker; however, it could also cause the bulb to explode. To manage that, fluorescent bulb fixtures are equipped with a ballast, which is usually an iron core wrapped in copper wire. The resulting device slows the current's growth and keeps it at a safe level for the bulb to operate efficiently. The electricity energizes the ballast into producing a magnetic field; as more current is passed through the tube, the magnetic field gets bigger. This slows the flow enough for the alternating current (AC) to switch directions, dropping to zero and going back up in the opposite direction in the process. All of the back-and-forth switching affects the ballast's electromagnetic field, since each time the current switches direction (every half cycle), the magnet's polarity also switches. Since the electromagnet fluctuates at twice the frequency of the AC current, its flicker rate is at 100 Hz or 120 Hz, depending on where you're located. During these fluctuations in magnetic field, the ballast's core is physically squeezed and released in a process called magnetostriction. At a frequency of either 100 Hz or 120 Hz, this constriction produces the infamous buzz for which fluorescent lights are known. For those who can't stand the buzzing sound, or for those who have issues with migraine headaches induced by the fluorescent bulbs and their flickering light, electronic ballasts are available. They are actually quite common, and they can be found in Compact Fluorescent bulbs (CFLs). These ballasts typically operate at a drastically higher frequency, usually in excess of 20,000 Hz.