To understand radioactivity, we first need to know about atoms and atomic structure. All elements are made up of small units called atoms. At the center of each atom is the nucleus, which contains particles called protons. Since protons have a positive charge, the entire nucleus is positively charged. All atoms, though, also contain electrons which orbit around the nucleus in various shells. The electrons are much smaller and lighter than protons, and they carry a negative charge. Since opposite charges attract each other, the negative electrons stay in close formation around the positive nucleus. The nucleus of almost all atoms also contain particles known as neutrons. They are slightly larger and heavier than protons, but they have no charge at all. Since the protons and electrons balance each other out, the atom as a whole has no net charge. About 90 elements are naturally occurring on Earth (with many others artificially created), each with a different number of protons, electrons, and neutrons; the number of each is what gives the element its unique properties. The number of protons in the nucleus is called the atomic number; the combined number of protons and neutrons is called the atomic mass. The atomic number of an element always remains the same, but the atomic mass does not, as the number of neutrons in an element may vary. Take, for example, hydrogen. The most common type has one proton and one neutron. Deuterium is the form of hydrogen that has two neutrons in its nucleus; when it appears in water, it is called "heavy water." Tritium has three, and it is radioactive; the nucleus is inherently unstable, and it breaks apart in a known fashion. Versions of the same element that have different atomic masses are known as isotopes. Radioactive atoms are unstable because they have too many protons and neutrons stuffed in their nuclei. When a radioactive element breaks apart, it releases radiation. There are three types of radiation: alpha particles, beta particles, and gamma rays. Most radioactive elements produce either alpha or beta particles, but they all produce gamma rays in the process. Alpha particles consist of two protons and two neutrons that break away from the nucleus; as they do not have any electrons, these particles are positively charged. Beta particles are single electrons and therefore carry a negative charge; if a neutron in a heavy nucleus collapses, the result is a proton and an electron, with the electron released as a beta particle. There are cases when a proton turns into a neutron. In these cases, instead of releasing a negative electron, the nucleus produces a beta particle that is positively charged, called a positron. If an electron should meet up with a positron, the result is mutual annihilation. Gamma rays, which are released during radioactive decay, are composed of a stream of tiny particles called photons, which are packets of energy that make up a ray of light. While gamma rays are invisible to the human eye, they carry much more energy than visible light. Sometimes radioactive elements will release X-rays, which are also high energy, but less so than gamma rays.