Saccharin has the distinction of being the first non-toxic artificial sweetener produced, as well as a product that was discovered entirely by accident. The compound was discovered in 1878-79 in a small lab at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland, belonging to Professor of Chemistry Ira Remsen. Remsen was hired by the H.W. Perot Import Firm in 1877, mostly so that they could loan the lab's use to Constantin Fahlberg, a young Russian chemist obsessed with sugars. The company was interested in having Fahlberg use Remsen's lab to test the purity of a sugar shipment impounded by the U.S. government, which he happily did. When he was through, he continued to work in Remsen's lab on a number of other projects, such as developing coal tar derivatives. On the day of the "accident," Fahlberg worked at the lab then headed home for dinner, where he noticed that the bread he'd just bitten tasted incredibly sweet. He ruled out the possibility that the bread was made that way, and, remembering that he hadn't bothered to wash his hands before his meal, he came to the conclusion that he must have accidentally spilled one of his chemicals onto his hands. Instead of panicking at the possibility of adverse side effects, he raced back to the lab. There, Fahlberg tasted every chemical he'd left on his desk - after all, it was in the name of science. Eventually, he discovered a beaker filled with sulfobenzoic acid, phosphorus chloride, and ammonia; though this sounds a bit deadly, the mixture had boiled over earlier in the day, creating benzoic sulfinide, a sweet-tasting ingredient he was already familiar with. Fahlberg quickly wrote a scientific paper with Remsen, published in 1879, describing the compound and the methods of creating it. However, after realizing its massive commercial potential, Fahlberg decided he wanted the glory all for himself; when he patented "saccharin" (from the Latin "saccharon," meaning "sugar") in 1886, he listed himself as the sole creator. Regardless of who created it, from the beginning the new artificial sweetener, advertised as a "non-fattening" alternative to sugar (the body can't metabolize it), was reasonably successful in the United States, although it wouldn't be until sugar shortages came in World War II that it would became a widespread hit. Beginning in the 1970s, there was widespread belief that saccharin caused cancer, despite the National Academy of Sciences' 1974 literature review that determined the only studies indicating that saccharin was a carcinogen were either methodically flawed or ambiguous in their results. One particular study found that saccharin could lead to bladder cancer in rats; this led to the Saccharin Study and Labeling Act of 1977, which put a severe warning label on packaging that read: "Use of this product may be hazardous to your health. This product contains saccharin which has been determined to cause cancer in laboratory animals." However, while saccharin did lead to cancer in rats, numerous rigorous studies found that it did not cause cancer in any primate species, including humans. In 2001, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration removed it from their list of cancer-causing substances.