Sherlock Holmes is undoubtedly one of the most famous fictional characters. At the time Sir Arthur Conan Doyle first began to write stories about him in the late 19th century, Baker Street existed, but his famous address, 221B Baker Street, did not. In the 1930s, though, the street numbers in London were rearranged to make them more streamlined; during this process, a structure designated for the Abbey Road Building Society (aka Santander, a bank), received all the odd numbers between 219 and 229. This meant that 221 Baker Street now existed, and all of the fan mail people had inexplicably sent to the fictional Holmes now had a place to be delivered. As the bank began trading from the building on March 18, 1932, they were deluged with mail addressed to Holmes, and while most were just nice messages wishing the detective well, there were a large number of people who'd written to ask for Holmes' sleuthing help. The bank, faced with this rather awkward situation, decided to go along with it; they hired someone to serve as "Sherlock Holmes' personal secretary," tasking them with reading and responding to each and every piece of mail. They took it a step further, too, when, rather than sending a stock reply on bank stationary explaining the detective was a figment of Doyle's imagination, this secretary would explain that Holmes had retired to the country to raise bees on a farm in South Downs, Sussex. This explanation was not pulled out of thin air, as fans of the stories will note; this is where Arthur Conan Doyle himself claimed Holmes went in his twilight years, as told in the short stories, "The Lion's Mane," "The Blanched Soldiers," and "His Last Bow." According to Nikki Capar, who worked in this capacity during the 1980s, she'd also sometimes write back to fans as Sherlock Holmes, using quotes from the stories and often telling fans that she (Holmes) had "given myself up entirely to that soothing life of Nature for which I had so often yearned during the long years spent amid the gloom of London." In 1990, though, the winds shifted when the Sherlock Holmes Museum opened nearby; although it was located between 237 and 241 Baker Street, it argued that it was the authority on Sherlock Holmes and was better equipped to handle his correspondence than a billion-dollar company that had been doing an admirable job for about five straight decades. The courts, though, didn't agree with the museum and ruled in favor of the bank, since a) they technically did own 221 Baker Street, and b) it wasn't their fault that people sent correspondence to a person who didn't exist. The museum fought this decision for over a decade until 2002; at that time, the bank, then known as Abbey National, moved its headquarters to nearby Triton Square. At this point, the Westminster council was sick and tired of dealing with the issue, and when the bank moved, they granted the museum exclusive rights to use the 221B Baker Street address, even though it still resided between 237 and 241 Baker Street.