The Black Death, also known as bubonic or pneumonic plague, was a devastating pandemic that ravaged Europe in the 14th century, killing an estimated 75-200 million people. Even before the "death ships" reached Messina in October 1347, many Europeans had heard rumors about a "Great Pestilence" following the Silk Road trading route at the peak of its commercial enterprise, (early in the 1340s, China, India, Persia, Syria, and Egypt had all been affected); however, they were completely unprepared for the horrific nature of the disease. The Italian poet, Giovanni Boccaccio wrote of the sickness, "In men and women alike, at the beginning of the malady, certain swellings, either on the groin or under the armpits ... waxed to the bigness of a common apple, others to the size of an egg." Blood and pus oozed out of these swellings, followed by fever, vomiting, diarrhea, intense pain, and almost inevitably, death. Not long after striking Messina, the disease spread to the port of Marseilles in France, Tunis in North Africa, and the Italian cities of Rome and Florence; by the middle of 1348, it had reached Paris and then London, where, in the latter case, it killed six out of ten individuals. People of that time did not understand the nature of the disease, and their responses seem ridiculous to us today. According to a doctor at that time, "instantaneous death occurs when the aerial spirit escaping from the eyes of the sick man strikes the healthy person standing near and looking at the sick." Physicians tried dangerous and unsanitary practices, such as bloodletting and boil-lancing; others engaged in superstitious rituals, such as burning aromatic herbs and bathing in rosewater or vinegar. Many publicly flagellated themselves seeking God's forgiveness for their sins. Today, scientists comprehend the underlying biology, which is that the disease is caused by the bacterium Yersina pestis, discovered by the French biologist, Alexandre Yersin, at the end of the 19th century. The bacterium travels from person to person through the air, as well as through the bite of infected fleas and/or their carriers, most notably rodents. Both pests were particularly at home aboard ships, which is why the plague initially spread from port to port. The most interesting new development in our plague knowledge was that the black rat, long held as the vector for the infected fleas, may not have been responsible for the outbreaks after all. According to a study published in the "Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences," for Europe's black rat population to be the cause, you would need "warm summers, with not too much precipitation." Instead, said author Nils Christian Stenseth to the BBC, analysis of 15 tree-ring records, which indicate yearly weather conditions, shows that Europe's plague outbreaks (they occurred from the 14th through the 18th centuries) always occurred after central Asia had a wet spring followed by a warm summer - ideal conditions for an explosion of Asia's gerbil population, which hopped aboard ships to Europe. This finding also explains why the disease popped up intermittently over hundreds of years, rather than lingering on the continent as long as rats were around to carry it.