It may sound gross, but using poop to create energy can be both profitable and resource-efficient. According to a report by the United Nations University Institute for Water, Environment and Health (UNU-INWEH), extracting biogas from the world's annual human waste output could be worth up to 9.5 billion U.S. dollars in generated energy. That figure equals the amount needed to power about 138 million houses, the number found in Indonesia, Brazil, and Ethiopia combined. And even energy obtained just from waste left out in the open (which is done in many third-world countries, as opposed to disposed of in sanitation systems) could generate an estimated $200 million. "We recycle the nutrients in human waste effectively via agriculture in many places," says co-author Chris Metcalfe of Trent University, "yet the potential energy value of human waste has been given much less attention to date." The fuel can come in the form of biogas (about 60% methane) which is generated when bacteria break down feces in an oxygen-free environment; the resulting residue could be dried and charred into sludge, producing an energy source like coal or charcoal and curbing the need for cutting down trees in the process. There are, however, several drawbacks: 1) many officials are concerned about the safety of such fuels and believe testing must demonstrate that the energy's source doesn't impact food taste or quality; 2) the process of production could initially be quite costly, though it would gradually become lower; and 3) while there is a financial incentive to generate energy by-products from waste, it may not be adequate in all cultures to overcome the 'yuck' factor of using our own waste. It's important to note, though, that around the world, we're already reusing the water and nutrients in wastewater; Corinne Schuster-Wallace, the paper's lead author comments, "Increasingly, water-scarce regions are being driven to separate and reuse the water in wastewater, particularly to expand marginal agricultural lands. There is a technological opportunity, particularly in rural growth areas and small towns, to derive energy as well from this resource." A Swedish study established that, per cubic meter, human urine contains over 300 g of phosphorous, 900 g of potassium, and 300 g of sulphur; in addition, the World Health Organization (WHO) has determined that an individual excretes approximately 4.5 kg of nitrogen and 548 g of phosphorus every year. Metcalfe, too, notes that human waste, as well as animal waste, is already used to improve food production in many places around the world, governed by strict guidelines that ensure it is used safely. It has also been used successfully in other trial programs, such as a fuel source in some buses running from London to the English countryside. UNU-INWEH's Director, Zafar Adeel, sums up the concept's potential when he says, "When it comes to creating misery and poverty, human waste mismanagement has few rivals. If we can demonstrate a simple, cost effective new approach in low-resource settings, if we can successfully make a business case and change the economic paradigm of human waste management, we can advance development, protect the environment and help reduce sanitation problems causing one-tenth of all world illnesses."