The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) is known and respected all over the world; it is considered relatively impartial and objective as compared to many other news sources, and surveys reveal listeners in both the U.K. and the U.S. regard it as one of the most trusted news sources. The BBC was first launched in 1922, with the General Manager being Scottish engineer, Sir John Reith, who was insistent that the company be as formal and "quintessentially British" as possible. He created a number of rules towards achieving his broadcasting goals. Perhaps the rule that Reith stressed most strenuously was that newscasters had to speak the "King's English," known today as "BBC English" or, more technically, "Received Pronunciation," which he felt was, "a style or quality of English that would not be laughed at in any part of the country." As Reith was also aware the broadcasts would be heard abroad, he felt a regional accent would prove difficult for non-Britains to understand. In the 1929 BBC Handbook distributed to employees, it noted specifically that pronunciation guidelines, "[are] not to be regarded as implying that all other pronunciations are wrong; the recommendations are made in order to ensure uniformity of practice." As for Received Pronunciation, or RP as it's often abbreviated, it is defined as: "The standard form of British English pronunciation," and it was first defined in 1869 by linguist, A.J. Ellis. It basically involves pronouncing your words "properly," as they are listed and defined in the dictionary. While the primary idea behind Received Pronunciation is to remove a person's regional accent and make the voice more "common," it is nonetheless often associated with the south of England and with the upper class. This indicates that although Received Pronunciation attempts to mask an individual's regional background, it also says a lot about their social upbringing and how they were educated; the closer to RP they get, the higher people perceive their social class to be. Even though one of Reith's major goals in using RP was to appeal to the widest audience possible, it should be noted that many listeners actually did feel alienated because the accent used was of the "upper class." Despite this, newscasters were required to use Received Pronunciation right up until World War II. Things changed with the start of the war, since Nazi Germany invested a great deal of time and money in training its spies and propagandists to speak using perfect Received Pronunciation; in this way, they could effectively pass as Brits. As a result, the Ministry of Information became concerned that the Nazis would be able to issue orders over the radio in a voice that would be indistinguishable from one of their own newscasters. In addition, Deputy Prime Minister, Clement Attlee, noted that the total monopoly newscasters with upper-class sounding voices had on the news was deemed offensive to the working class; as a result, he hired a number of broadcasters with broad, regional accents to appeal to the lower classes and to prove more difficult to the Germans to copy.