Fingerprints emerge on the finger buds of the growing fetus, beginning to develop around the tenth week and completing their pattern by the end of the fourth month; however, scientists are not exactly certain of how the process is carried out. What we do know is that the whorls, arches, and loops on the digits' tips are unique to each individual and are highly durable; even when patterns have been damaged or worn down, they can usually regenerate. One major theory holds that a middle skin layer, known as the basal layer, is sandwiched between the inside layer (the dermis) and the outer layer (the epidermis). The basal layer grows faster than the others, and its growth strains against its neighbors, causing the skin to buckle and form the folds of the epidermis into the dermis that we perceive as prints. Interestingly, it is exactly because the pattern is "encoded" at the layer between the dermis and the epidermis that the fingerprint becomes nearly permanent and is not affected by superficial skin injuries. Fingerprint ridges are particularly susceptible to wear; as an example, bricklaying is a repeated activity that can wear down fingerprints, making them unusable for personal identification. In the same way, criminals may remove their fingerprints, either with acid or fire, to prevent leaving traces at a crime scene. We also know that people undergoing certain forms of chemotherapy can also temporarily lose their fingerprints in a process known as chemotherapy-induced acral erythema. In these cases, capecitabine, the drug that's used, causes painful swelling and peeling on the palms and on the soles of the feet, sloughing the fingerprints off with the skin. In most cases, however, because of the ingrained imprinting the imprint is embedded in the deeper skin layers, once exposure to the abrasive, caustic, or hot conditions cease, the fingerprints will grow back. If the damage to a fingertip extends deeply into the skin's generating layer, it may result in changes to the fingerprint; however, the scar produced can itself become permanently encoded into the fingerprint pattern, making the person's print identifiable. "Latent fingerprints" are the patterns found by crime scene investigators after they use a brush to dust with powder or a chemical over the residue, which is formed by a combination of sweat and oil from the skin coming between the fingertip pattern and a surface; however, despite what Hollywood would have you believe, latent fingerprints are not foolproof, and there are three major factors that can contribute to making an inaccurate identification. First, no two fingerprints or impressions are ever precisely alike, even from the same person; second, latent fingerprints collected at crime scenes are frequently partial, smudged, or dirty prints; and third, there is an element of human error. In a 2011 study, 0.1% of the identifications made were false positives, meaning an individual was identified when he had not made the print. Although this percentage is small, when you consider that the FBI received over 60 million ten-print (full set of ten digits) submissions in 2013, at a 0.1% error rate, 60,000 false positive matches could have been produced.