As the story goes, Julius Caesar was not born; he was cut out of his mother following her death in the ninth month of pregnancy, and from his name we get the term "caesarian section". The trouble is, this is not what happened, and though it's difficult to determine how exactly the story got started, a 10th century document, called the "Suda," is the most likely place. The Suda is a Byzantine-Greek historical encyclopedia, and in its pages we find: "The emperors of the Romans receive this name from Julius Caesar, who was not born. For when his mother died in the ninth month, they cut her open, took him out, and named him thus; for in the Roman tongue dissection is called 'Caesar'". We know this account is inaccurate for several reasons. First, babies had been cut from their mother's wombs in many different cultures long before Caesar was born; in fact, this procedure was actually part of imperial law in Rome and known as the "Lex Caesaria". The law was set down in the time of Numa Pompilius (715-673 B.C., hundreds of years before Caesar), and it stated that if a pregnant woman died, the baby had to be taken from her womb. Though this practice was probably done for religious reasons, so the baby could be buried separately from its mother; doctors eventually realized that, in many cases, the baby could be saved, though the mother's life (even if the procedure was done while she was still alive) was almost always forfeit. Second, Aurelia Cotta, Caesar's mother, not only didn't die in childbirth, but she survived to see her son to adulthood and functioned as one of his political advisers; there is even the possibility that she survived him. Since Aurelia did not die giving birth, it is extremely unlikely that she underwent a caesarean section; at the time, the operation was used only as a "last resort" to save the baby's life. The procedure faced an extremely high mortality rate from infection and hemorrhaging well into the 19th century, and the first c-section performed in America where both the mother and child survived did not occur until 1794, when Dr. Jesse Bennett operated on his wife, Elizabeth. Interestingly, the Oxford English Dictionary, an authority on word origins, seems to back up the claim that Caesar was born via caesarean, defining the procedure as: "the delivery of a child by cutting through the walls of the abdomen when delivery cannot take place in the natural way, as was done in the case of Julius Caesar". Historian Pliny the Elder, though, clarifies the situation a bit further, stating that the name "Caesar" came from the Latin word "caedere," meaning "to cut;" one of Caesar's ancestors was born via c-section, and his name was passed down to the emperor: "the first, too, of the Caesars was so named, from his having been removed by an incision in his mother's womb."