Over hundreds of years, Londoners dumped tons of raw, unfiltered sewage into the Thames River, while breweries and paper mills dumped their waste water, and slaughterhouses dumped their refuse into it. The basic mentality was, the river flowed to the sea-out of sight, out of mind. Unfortunately, the Thames is a tidal river, which means the tides pushed the rotting sewage back up river, where it collected and turned stagnant. The issue only became a concern in the early 1800s when people began connecting their overflowing cesspits to London's surface water drains-tons of raw sewage washed through the streets and directly into the city's main source of "clean" water. One of the effects was several outbreaks of deadly cholera-in 1832, 1849, and 1854. The leading theory was that the illness was caused by "bad air," and while this made some people avoid going near the smelly river, it didn't stop them from drinking its water or that from contaminated wells. Epidemiologist Dr. John Snow came to the conclusion that drinking water laced with human excrement was probably causing the cholera outbreaks. He reasoned that since cholera affected people's bowels and not their lungs, it was probably caused by something they'd eaten or drank. He wrote the pamphlet "On the Mode of Communication of Cholera" in 1849, in which he explicitly linked the transmission of cholera to drinking the Thames' polluted water. However, his theories went largely ignored until Reverend Henry Whitehead mapped out where people in his parish had contracted cholera in 1854; he traced it to a single water pump near a cesspit, confirming that cholera was linked to tainted water. Snow managed to convince the local council to shut down the well pump, and the outbreak quickly stopped. Snow died in 1858, unappreciated; his death, though, coincided with the event that would eventually lead to his vindication-the Great Stink. The summer of 1858 was unnaturally warm, so much so that the Thames' water level dropped significantly, exposing decades of rotted sewage to the blistering Sun. The resulting smell was so bad, it caused people miles away to vomit when the wind changed. Members of parliament, though, repeatedly ignored pleas from their constituents to do something about the situation; it wasn't until they were affected themselves that they started to act. According to noted scientist Michael Faraday, "the recently rebuilt houses of Parliament stood upon the Thames' banks. This proximity to the source of the stench concentrated the politicians' attention on its causes in a way that many years of argument and campaigning had failed to do." The sweeping bill, which authorized £3 million to "refurbish the entirety of the River Thames," was created, passed, and signed into law in a matter of a few weeks. The effect of the new sewage system was felt almost immediately; and, in the 20 years it took to finish construction, London suffered only one more cholera outbreak, limited to a small area of the city in 1866 that had yet to be connected to the new system.