Athens, Greece was once the center of an empire that stretched around the globe, bringing new discoveries and insights about everything from mathematics to philosophy, astronomy to the biological and physical sciences, wherever they went. The Empire's eventual collapse, though, was caused at least in part by an epidemic. Until recently, it was believed that smallpox, anthrax, or measles, three well-known and deadly diseases, were responsible for the pandemic. However, recent genetic analysis indicates that it was typhoid fever that raged between 430-426 B.C. and killed a third of the city's population, effectively ending the golden age of Athenian dominance. Unfortunately, there is only one contemporary source for information on what happened, the historian and writer Thucydides; however, he catalogued the disease's symptoms and effects in painstaking detail. While some are skeptical of Thucydides' objectivity, his description of the sufferings endured by plague victims, as well as the effects of the epidemic upon Athenian society, have proven of value to both physicians and historians. In the second volume of his "History of the Peloponnesian War," he says: "Men were seized first with intense heat of the head, and redness and inflammation of the eyes… both the throat and the tongue immediately became blood-red and exhaled an unnatural and fetid breath." According to the author, it was after the first year of the war, and the subsequent public funerals, that "the plague began for the first time to show itself amongst the Athenians." The inevitable fever, rash, and diarrhea present in all the plague's victims are consistent with typhoid fever, which is spread by contaminated water and food. As the war progressed, the city came under siege, the king was taken by the fever, and eventually the Athenians were forced to surrender. By recording the epidemic in such detail, Thucydides indicated his aim was to describe its course and explain its symptoms so that future generations might have "knowledge of it beforehand, to [sic] recognise it if it should ever break out again." Medicine in ancient Greece was such that sickness was believed to be caused by an imbalance between the fluids, or "humors" of the body; according to the Hippocratic Corpus, attaining the correct balance of the humors was a highly personal affair, dictated by a patient's natural constitution, lifestyle, and the environment. Because of this belief, Greek doctors found it difficult to account for epidemic diseases such as the plague. Modern Greek scientists studying the plague say they concluded that typhoid was responsible for the lethal effects, but they needed proof. They uncovered critical DNA from the teeth of skeletal remains in an ancient mass burial pit. The pit consisted of more than five layers of skeletons buried in a very ordered, precise manner, which suggests, say the scientists, that it must have been a quick burial under difficult conditions. After extracting the DNA from the teeth, the researchers used cutting-edge technology to magnify and examine the precise genetic sequences from the ancient grave, comparing them with known sequences from diseases such as plague, typhus, anthrax, tuberculosis, and cat-scratch disease. The only match they found was with typhoid fever.