Considered at its conception as the "idealization of the American suburb," Levittown was built by William Levitt using the most novel and up-to-date of building methods at that time. Originally called "Island Trees," the planned community capitalized on the housing crunch of the mid to late-1940s, offering affordable housing to GIs returning home, and to their families. Levitt was a master publicist, and he understood that in order to make this community a success, he needed to present it as a new form of ideal American life, one that combined the "perfect" middle-class suburban life of a decade before with the democratized life of the younger generation of primarily urban-raised soldiers and their families. The community took the form of small, detached, single-family houses equidistant from New York City and the burgeoning defense industrial plants on Long Island. Not everyone was pleased with this model. From the first, accusations focused on Levittown's relentless homogeneity, the cramped quarters of its interiors, and the "raw," new-looking quality of its landscape. This was not surprising, since most of the critics had their own vision of an "idealized" America, a vision they based both on previously constructed, custom-built housing communities (many of them actually built by Levitt and his family), and their established, conservative, upper-middle-class world view. That vision, however, not only didn't meet the needs of either Levitt or his market, but also was inappropriate for the period that allowed this effort to flourish. The Levittowners themselves viewed and understood their new houses in the context of the ones they were leaving - multi-unit brick, stone, or frame apartment complexes within New York City's boroughs. These buildings were often laid out ten, twenty, thirty at a time; if you grew up in one of these rows of monotonously identical apartments, the aesthetic and philosophical objections of Levittown's detractors weren't quite so obvious. Levittown also offered families a sense of community. Levitt realized that his new suburb was too big to work as a self-contained neighborhood, so he built an extended cluster of neighborhoods, complete with central organizing "village centers" to hold the elements together. He drew on much of the urban theory architects and builders came up with during the Depression, as well as the experiences of architects and builders drafted to build new housing for the military and defense-related industries. And the community's new residents weren't bothered by the quality of the landscape. They knew the trees and grass would quickly grow, and they understood the Levitt pitch promising opportunities to "personalize the interior and exterior of your Levittown house." Over time, as their occupants rose in status and economic wealth, as families expanded, and as community standards of innovation and growth changed, the character of the homes changed, as well. Today, Levittown is not the "idealized" suburb of its inception, but rather a heterogeneous community; its continued existence, however, in whatever form, is a testament to the resilience of its original idea and to the particular time in American history - a period of optimism, expansiveness, and prosperity - that brought it to life.