Crystals are solid materials. They have special properties. Their molecules fit together tightly. They form repeating patterns. Crystals often form when liquids cool. Molecules within the liquid come closer together. They seek a stable form with a lower energy state. The most stable form is a crystalline structure. Crystals can also form in nature. One way is from magma. This is liquid rock flowing below the Earth's crust. If it cools slowly, crystals may result. Many valuable crystals, such as diamonds, rubies, and emeralds form this way. Diamonds are a special type of crystal. They are formed from only one element - carbon. The atoms bind together under high heat and very high pressure. The lattice is very strong. This makes diamond the hardest known naturally occurring substance on the planet. Colored diamonds occur when there are small impurities in the lattice. One of the best-known diamonds is the Hope Diamond. It is a brilliant, deep blue. Crystals can also form when water evaporates from a mixture. Some materials may fall out of the solution as salt crystals. Crystals may have flat surfaces. These are called facets. They can also form geometric shapes. Triangles, rectangles, and squares are common. The shapes come from the types of atoms and molecules in the crystal. Crystals may have different sizes. However, if they form from the same molecules and in the same way, they should have similar shapes. Snowflakes are a type of crystal made in nature. They are made of ice. They form high in the clouds then fall to Earth. They almost always have six sides. However, each individual snowflake is unique. When an electric current is sent through some crystals, they vibrate at precise frequencies. These form "timing crystals." The quartz crystal is used in watches and other electronics. It helps keep an accurate time. Quartz is also one of the hardest common minerals. The gemstone amethyst is a purple type of quartz. Today, crystals are used in a new way. Many computer screens use liquid versions for their displays.