The Burmese python is one of the five largest species of snakes in the world. They can reach 23 feet (7 meters) long and weigh up to 200 pounds (90 kilograms). They are native to the jungles and grassy marshes of Southeast Asia. Pythons are carnivores. They have poor eyesight and stalk prey using both chemical receptors in their tongues and heat sensors in their jaws. They grasp their victims with their sharp teeth, coil their bodies around the animal, and squeeze until their prey suffocates or dies from lack of blood flow. Captive snakes thrive on a diet of small animals, such as rabbits and other snakes. In the wild, however, they're known to eat animals as large as deer and alligators. They swallow their meals whole; since their jaws can separate, it allows them to consume creatures four or five times as wide as their heads. Researchers X-rayed a snake eating an alligator to discover how its digestive system worked. The gator's soft tissues got eaten away over the course of three days, and its body completely dissolved within a week. And, to allow the snake to digest such a large meal, its body underwent enormous changes. As soon as it ingested its prey, the snake's gut tissues began secreting digestive acid and enzymes. The stomach pumped out huge amounts of hydrochloric acid, and the pH dropped from a slightly alkaline 7.5 to an extremely acidic 2. The python's metabolic rate also increased dramatically, reaching a spike within the first 48 hours and not returning to normal until digestion was complete. When the snake ate something equal to its own weight, its metabolism increased to 44 times faster than its resting rate. Cardiac output also increased, reaching levels higher even than when the snake was moving. This increased blood flow to the gut, and an increase in the mass of the heart muscle - 40 percent larger in just two days. The pancreas, liver, and kidneys grew, as well, and the cells lining the small intestine, where nutrients are absorbed, increased their volume by a full 50 percent. Digesting such a large meal takes a lot of energy, and, for the snake, about 37 percent of the energy derived from the meal went into the digestion process itself. One to two weeks after it consumed its meal, the snake excreted what it couldn't digest, and only then did its intestine and the rest of its digestive tract return to their normal, fasting states.